Validation (#405)
janephp/janephp: documentation/guides/validation.rst

Validation
==========

> Since Jane 7.2.0, you can use the `JSON Schema validation specification`_ for your Jane models.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since Jane 7.2.0, you can use the `JSON Schema validation specification`_ for your models generated with Jane.
```

The goal of this feature is to allow your data to be validated based on your schema (either JSON Schema or OpenAPI) and
in both ways (if you send data or if you receive data).

> At the moment Jane supports most of the specification except for ``minContains`` and ``maxContains`` for the Array

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At the moment Jane supports most of the specification except
- ``minContains`` and ``maxContains`` for the Array constraints
```

> constraints. And for ``dependentRequired`` in the Object constraints.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ``dependentRequired`` in the Object constraints.
```

Usage
-----

For this example we will take the following JSON Schema as our base model:

.. code-block:: json

    {
        "type": "object",
        "properties": {
            "name": {
                "type": "string",
                "maxLength": 128
            },
            "alcohol": {
                "type": "number",
                "minimum": 0.0
            },
            "year": {
                "type": "integer",
                "minimum": 1000,
                "maximum": 2022
            }
        }
    }

> From what you can see here, we have some validation rules used in that schema for each properties. To enable the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From what you can see here, each property has some validation rules. To enable the
```

> validation features in Jane, you'll have to set the ``validation`` parameter to ``true`` as following::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
validation feature in Jane, you'll have to set the ``validation`` parameter to ``true`` as following::
```

    <?php

    return [
        'json-schema-file' => __DIR__ . '/beer.json',
        'root-class' => 'Beer',
        'namespace' => 'App\Generated',
        'directory' => __DIR__ . '/generated',
        'validation' => true,
    ];

> With that configuration, validators will be generated and during normalization or denormalization they will be called to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With that configuration, validators will be generated and be called during normalization or denormalization to
```

> validate your data. You have nothing to change of your usual Jane calls since all the logic is put into the generated

Reviewer: ```suggestion
validate your data. You don't need to change anything in your code since all the validation logic is put into the generated
```

Normalizer.

So with the following code::

    <?php

    $normalizer = new BeerNormalizer();
    $model = $normalizer->denormalize([
        'name' => 'Kasteel Tripel',
        'alcohol' => 11.0,
        'year' => 1811,
    ], Beer::class);

    dump($model);

> You will get that model which was validated before returning:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will get that model which was validated before being returned:
```

                            'max' => 128,
                            'maxMessage' => 'This value is too long. It should have {{ limit }} characters or less.'
                        )),
                        new Constraints\Type(array('string'))
                    )),
                    'alcohol' => new Constraints\Optional(array(
                        new Constraints\GreaterThanOrEqual(array('value' => 0.0)),
                        new Constraints\Type(array('float'))
                    )),
                    'year' => new Constraints\Optional(array(
                        new Constraints\LessThanOrEqual(array('value' => 2022.0)),
                        new Constraints\GreaterThanOrEqual(array('value' => 1000.0)),
                        new Constraints\Type(array('integer')))
                    )),
                    'allowExtraFields' => true
                ))
            );

            $validator = Validation::createValidator();
            $violations = $validator->validate($data, $constraints);

            if ($violations->count() > 0) {
                throw new ValidationException($violations);
            }
        }
    }

> Here we can see that each field has a type constraint to check the value passed and if we have more constraints they

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here we can see that each field has a type constraint to check the value given and if we have more constraints they
```

will be added accordingly.

Inside the normalizer, you can find that validator usage with::

    public function denormalize($data, $class, $format = null, array $context = array())
    {
        $validator = new BeerValidator();
        $validator->validate($data);

        // ...
    }

> This allows the validation to be done without having anything else than the configuration to do. Also you can use the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This allows the validation to be done without having anything else than the configuration to enable. Also you can use the
```

> Validator out of Jane normalization by doing exactly the same as in the Normalizer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Validator outside of Jane normalization by doing exactly the same as in the Normalizer.
```
